# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

When saving, updating and deleting(one item)


Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

sql = "INSERT INTO properties
    (
      address,
      value,
      bedrooms,
      build
    )
    VALUES
    (
      $1,$2,$3,$4
    )

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

Not sure on this one

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

Not sure what question is asking

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

In property.rb file - 

    values = [@address, @value, @bedrooms, @build]
    db.prepare("save", sql)
    @id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"].to_i

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

Don't remember

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

A class method provides functionality to a class itself

An instant method provides functionality to one instance of a class

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

A an array of hashes - access index of hash then key within hash

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

to execute the same or similar database statements repeatedly with high efficiency

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

Q11. What are their return values?
